Up until this point,
you have been launching nodes using the roslaunch command.
As I mentioned previously,
a ROS system usually consists of many running nodes.
Running all of the nodes by hand can be torturers.
This is where the roslaunch command comes to save the day.
Roslaunch allows you to launch the ROS master and multiple nodes with one simple command,
set default parameters on the parameter server,
automatically respond processes that have died, and much more.
To use roslaunch, you must first make
sure that your workspace has been built and sourced.
Remember, to build the catkin workspace,
you use the command catkinmake while you were in the root directory of the workspace.
So, let's move to the root of the workspace and let's issue the build command catkinmake.
Once the workspace has been built you can source it's setup script.
The setup script lives in the newly created directory devel in the root of the workspace.
In the same fashion as the setup.bash script in the OPT ROS directory,
the workspace setup.bash is responsible for setting environment variables.
The workspace environment variables help the system find all of the packages,
libraries, and other resources provided by your catkin workspace.
So, let's source that now.
With your workspace sourced,
you can now launch simple arm.
Use the command roslaunch followed by the package name,
simple arm, and the name of the launch file.
Here, I'm going to use tab completion and it's robot_spawn.launch.
Awesome. There we go.
We've launched the arm using the launch file in the simple arm package.
A number of things just happened.
Perhaps, the most apparent is that I now have a robotic arm running in Gazebo.
The robot I'm simulating here is a simple two degrees of freedom robotic arm.
There is a little black bow on the end of the arm.
That bow represents a camera.
It's not just Gazebo that's running though,
if you switch over to the console window and scroll
up you can see that roslaunch has provided
a brief summary of all of the nodes that has been
launched and all of the parameters that has been set.
I won't spend any time talking about all of the details of the launch file here,
but I encourage you to check it out.
It's in the launch directory within the simple arm package.
Now, that you understand how to create a workspace,
and the package, build and launch everything,
you're prepared for the next step.